<h2>Introduction</h2>

<p>
Digital content piracy has been a significant disruption to the operation
of the Web for over a decade. While this is partially due to a number of factors
that are outside of the control of standards bodies, there remains one
key oversight that the standards organizations could address that would 
enable new business models via the Web while reducing the incentive to
illegally disseminate digital files. If Alice has an MP3 song that she would 
like to give Bob, there should be a simple mechanism to enable the legal 
duplication of that file from Alice to Bob. There should be a standard 
mechanism for the legal exchange of commercially viable digital content.
</p>

<p>
At present, digital media sales on the Web is largely a producer to
consumer model. Typically, sites like Apple iTunes, Amazon Music, Netflix,
the Microsoft Zune store and other digital retailers create proprietary,
Web-based store fronts to sell digital products to their customers. During the
product sale, the item is either wrapped in Digital Rights Management
technologies in an attempt to curb piracy or restrictively licensed only to the
individual purchasing the digital good. This is strictly a 
corporation-to-consumer experience.
</p>

<p>
There currently is no secondary market for digital content sales due to
the nature of digital media - reproducing a digital file is incredibly
fast, cheap and easy. This fact has lead to a great amount of digital
piracy, notably by peer-to-peer network technology such as Napster,
BearShare, Morpheus, Gnutella, Kazaa and BitTorrent. While iTunes has
claimed to make as many as 435,164 video sales per day through their
store, the number of video downloads per day over Mininova, one of the
largest BitTorrent networks (2008), approach close to 4,975,075 downloads per
day. Close to ten times as much video traffic is served through a single
BitTorrent community versus the number two digital video sales service
in the world.
</p>

<p>
While it is still fairly unknown how much DRM, industry tactics, value
proposition, platform access, file formats, convenience and digital
kleptomania contribute to piracy - it can be said that each is a contributor
to piracy in todays digital media ecosystem. 

By addressing some of the use cases outlined in this document, we may
be able to address the following key areas that are currently overlooked by
the major players: value proposition, platform access, file formats,
and convenience. The end-goal is to create a standards-based peer-to-peer 
network, driven by open, flexible standards, that allow customers to help 
artists, production companies and creators of content to distribute digital 
goods in exchange for financial compensation. Just as physical storefronts
help to distribute products on behalf of their manufacturers, digital
storefonts can help to distribute content on behalf of their creators.
</p>

<p>
Providing a standard mechanism for web browsers to exchange digital goods
in exchange for monetary compensation would provide a much needed core
feature of the Web that has been a demonstrated need for over a decade.
</p>
